# Illinois Tokenizer

This project is based on work by Yiming Jiang, who wrote the initial
version and evaluated CCG and Stanford tokenizers against a corpus
drawn from OntoNotes.

It has been modified in the following way: additional classes were
written to use illinois-core-utilities data structures. The underlying
tokenizer is still the LBJava `SentenceSplitter`. The evaluation code
has not been updated to use the new `IllinoisTokenizer` class (TODO).

## HOW TO USE IT
        
The class `edu.illinois.cs.cogcomp.annotation.TextAnnotationBuilder` 
interface from illinois-core-utilities to create a `TextAnnotation` 
object with `SENTENCE` and `TOKEN` views, other builder can be provided 
as a constructor argument to a `CachingAnnotatorService` that uses other 
annotators in pipeline fashion.


## Setup

The StanfordTokenizer requires using a Java 8 runtime.


## Original Project Structure
### OntoNotes
**OntoNotesParser**:  
*input*: a single ontonotes file  
*output*: JSON file  

**OntoNotesJsonReader**:  
*input*: JSON file generated by **OntoNotesParser**  
*output*: Curator Record Data Structure  

### Tokenizers
**IllinoisTokenizer**:  
*input*: array of sentence strings, total is an article  
*output*: Curator Record Data Structure  

**StanfordTokenizer**:
**input**: array of sentence strings, total is an article  
**output**: Curator Record Data Structure  

### Evaluator
**Evaluator**:  
takes gold standard Record and a sample Record  

**Evaluation Criteria**:  
*ON_GOLD_STANDARD_AGAINST_SAMPLE*: iterate over each gold standard token and see if it's in sample tokens  
*ON_SAMPLE_AGAINST_GOLD_STANDARD*: iterate over each sample token and see if it's in gold standard tokens  

## JSON File Format

Each JSON file is generated from *OntoNotesParser*. Each JSON file corresponds to each OntoNotes file.

This is the format of JSON file.

```
{  
    "sentences": [  
    {  
        "sentence_text":  
        "sentence_start_offset":  
        "sentence_end_offset":  
        "tokens": [  
        {  
            "token_text":  
            "token_start_offset":  
            "token_end_offset":  
        },  
        ...  
    },  
    ...  
}  
```

**Format**:  
`"sentences"` has an array of sentences, with sentence text and offsets.  
`"tokens"` has an array of tokens with token text and offsets.  

## Example Usage

### OntoNotesParser
```java
OntoNotesParser parser = new OntoNotesParser("wsj_0089.onf");
parser.writeToFileInJson("json_output.txt");
```

### OntoNotesJsonReader
```java
OntoNotesJsonReader reader = new OntoNotesJsonReader("json_output.txt");
reader.parseIntoCuratorRecord();
```

### IllinoisTokenizer
```java
OntoNotesJsonReader reader = new OntoNotesJsonReader("json_output.txt");
ArrayList<String> rawTexts = reader.getRawTexts();
IllinoisTokenizer illinoisTokenizer = new IllinoisTokenizer(rawTexts);
```

### StanfordTokenizer
```java
OntoNotesJsonReader reader = new OntoNotesJsonReader("json_output.txt");
ArrayList<String> rawTexts = reader.getRawTexts();
StanfordTokenizer stanfordTokenizer = new StanfordTokenizer(rawTexts);
```

### Evaluator
```java
Evaluator evaluator = new Evaluator();
evaluator.evaluateIllinoisTokenizer(EvaluationCriteria.ON_SAMPLE_AGAINST_GOLD_STANDARD);
evaluator.evaluateStanfordTokenizer(EvaluationCriteria.ON_SAMPLE_AGAINST_GOLD_STANDARD);
```

## About Illinois Tokenizer

* Developed by: Yiming Jiang
* Advised by: Professor Dan Roth
* Mentored by: Mark Sammons

##Citation

If you use this code in your research, please provide the URL for this github repository in the relevant publications.
Thank you for citing us if you use us in your work!
